# Birds Aren't Real on Twitter, Apparently ⛔🐦‍⬛
## Introduction
This is a small data analysis project that peers into the brief popularity of the #BirdsArentReal movement, a parody movement/conspiracy theory that began in roughly 2017 and reached its peak in the early 2020's. The theory is more or less summed up in the hashtag: all birds, at some point in time, were "replaced them with identical drone replicas designed to spy on the American public" (quoting the official BirdsAren'tReal Twitter account). The purpose of my analysis was to figure out what were the common 'themes' or topics related to the movement, who on Twitter were the main boosters of the topic, and the trend's popularity over time. 
## Datasets and Software Used 📈
This project only uses two datasets. The first and primary dataset was [taken from Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gpreda/birds-arent-real-on-twitter-either), and it contains all of the Twitter data relating to #BirdsArentReal between the end of 2021 and start of 2022. The second dataset was [taken from Google Trends](https://trends.google.com/explore?geo=Worldwide&date=all&q=Birds%2520Aren%27t%2520Real) and simply tracks the frequency of google searches for the phrase 'Birds Aren't Real.' I used Excel, Python, and Tableau and at different stages of the project for EDA, data cleaning, and data visualisation respectively. In order for the Python scripts to function, you will need to import the packages Pandas, Numpy, and Matplotlib. 
## What's in this project?📁
I've grouped the various csv files into subject-specific folders. This was to make moving and working with these files in Tableau easier; all files relating to the line chart visualisation are grouped together, likewise with files relating to a wordcloud or bar chart. It should be noted that the various csv's found in most of the folders were created by me in the process of data cleaning for use in Tableau - they do not represent the actual Twitter dataset from Kaggle! All original datasets used can be found in the creatively titled 'original_datasets' folder. Finally, the python scripts I wrote for data cleaning are all organised in a separate folder, and should be well-annotated enough to demonstrate my data cleaning process. 
